
1

Automatic Zoom
 School of Computing and Creative Technologies 
 
Assessment Specification – Portfolio Task 4 
Module Details 
Module Code UFCE8B-30-3 
Module Title Data Science for Cyber Security 
Module Leader Ahsan Ikram 
Module Tutors Ahsan Ikram, Andrew McCarthy 
Year 2025-26 
Task 04 
Total number of assessments for this module 01 
Weighting 20% 
Date issued to students 16/02/2026 
Task Specification 
You are a cyber security analyst consulting for a financial organisation.  
Their recent risk assessment suggests a higher than usual threat of a malware attack. They have decided to 
be proactive and improve their defences.  
One of the areas they are focussing on is the development of a real-time visualisation dashbaord. In the first 
prototype of the data visualisation dashboard, they aim to monitor,  
1)  Network Traffic (throughput, protocol, source etc.) 
2)  Endpoints (current issues, Operating System (OS) version, firewall status etc.) 
3)  Data backups (backup coverage, backup encryption, backup validation etc.)  
4)  Staff readiness and awareness of cyber threats (pending training, job role risk profile, current risk 
profile etc.)   
Your task is to advise the local government on what data should be collected and based on that, next, 
preparation of the dashboard. A breakdown of tasks and marks is shown below.  
 
Sample Files: No files were given for this task.  
Deliverable: You are required to submit, 
1. A document that contains your suggestions on the details of the data that should be collected. 
The table below provides some examples.  
Category Sub-
category 
Metric / 
Format 
Frequency Collection 
Mode 
Collection 
Mechanism 
Recorded 
at 
Storage 
Network Protocol Text Real-time Automated Network tap Gateway 
router 
CSV file 
Endpoint Staff PC Text 10 min Automated SNMP trap Host 
machines 
CSV file 
Staff 
readiness 
Current 
Profile 
3-scale 
(low-
medium-
high) 
3 months Manual HR records HR system Excel file 
 
2. A cyber security dashboard protoype (created in Python).  
a. You don’t have to collect or use actual data for this task. You can generate a small set (5-10 
rows) of dummy data.    
b.  The dashboard should use at least two inputs. For example, one CSV (Comma Separated-
Values) or text or excel file or a database table for network traffic, one CSV/text/Excel file for 
endpoint data. 
c. Focus on the usability and user experience aspects of the dashboard; in terms of the 
selection of the layout, selection of graphs, placement of important information, selection 
of fonts/colors/separators etc. 
Marking criteria: 
 Task Marks 
1 Three identified data metrics each, for network traffic monitoring, 
endpoints monitoring, data backups monitoring and staff readiness 
monitoring.  
4 
2 Prototype dashboard using at least two input files and six charts. 8 
3 At least one geo-spatial visualisation (included in the six charts in 
part-2).  2 
4 At least one interactive visualisation (included in the six charts in 
part-2). Choose an appropriate interaction, for example, data filter, 
layout change, auto-refresh etc. 
2 
5 Effective layout and design of the dashboard. 4 
 Total 20 
 
 