 
 
School of Computing and Creative Technologies 
Assessment Brief  
Submission details 
Module title: Data Science for Cyber Security  
Module code: UFCE8B-30-3 
Module Leader: Ahsan Ikram 
Assessment title: Data Science Portfolio 
Year: 2025-26 
Assessment type: Portfolio 
Assessment weighting: 100% of total module mark 
Size or length of 
assessment: 
3000-words or equivalent 
Module learning 
outcomes assessed by 
this task: 
1.  To demonstrate understanding of programming for the purposes of data science in 
cyber security  
2.  To demonstrate practical skills of gathering, processing and analysing data to solve 
cyber security challenges  
3.  To reflect upon techniques and methods used and evaluate their performance 
Use of AI in the 
assessment: 
Generative Artificial intelligence (Gen AI) tools can be used in an assistive role 
You are permitted to use Gen AI tools in an assistive role in this assessment to support 
you with   
• drafting and structuring content (excluding software or coding content) 
• supporting a particular process such as translating content 
• providing ideas or inspiration to help you overcome a creative block. 
Please note that while GenAI tools might suggest topics/content, you will always need to 
go back and locate and critically engage with actual literature/research/evidence 
yourself.  
  
As the use of Gen AI is optional (due to its purely supportive capacity) it’s use is not part 
of the skills or knowledge you need to demonstrate for this assessment. However, if you 
have used Gen AI to prepare or produce part or all your work, you must acknowledge its 
use. For more advice on this (and its use in general) please see your Generative AI study 
skills guide. 
 
Guidance on 
Referencing (inc AI): 
Please note that the aim of referencing is to demonstrate you have read and understood 
a range of sources to evidence your key points.  You need to list the references 
consistently and in such a way as to ensure the reader can follow up on the sources for 
themselves.  
Referencing - Study skills | UWE Bristol  
Using generative AI at UWE Bristol - Study skills | UWE Bristol 
  
Page 2 of 6 
 
 
Submission and feedback dates 
Submission deadline: Before 14:00 on 07/05/2026 
Is eligible for 48-hour late submission window. 
All times are 24-hour clock, current local time (at time of submission) in the UK. 
 
Submission format: You are required to submit a zipped (compressed) file via Blackboard. The file should 
include,  
1. A completed coversheet. (The template for the coversheet will be provided) 
2. A sub-folder for each portfolio task. (Each folder should contain all relevant 
data and materials needed to run/validate the completed tasks). 
3. A video file (or URL) demonstrating the working and execution of the 
completed tasks.   
Marks and Feedback 
due on: 
20 working days after the submission window date. 
Marks and Feedback 
will be provided via: 
Blackboard. 
  
Page 3 of 6 
 
Completing your assessment  
Where am I required to do on this assessment? 
This is an individual assignment. 
The assignment requires you to complete a set of tasks (04), combined into a portfolio. The tasks will be aimed at 
applying the data science principles and techniques covered in the module to cyber security related case-studies and 
datasets.   
 
The tasks are briefly described in the table below. More specific details and datasets for the tasks will be released in 
the weeks indicated in the ‘Week released’ column.  
 
Task Description Week released 
01 
Data Quality Pipeline Task: Using the given dataset, create a data quality 
pipeline; the pipeline must include, data acquisition, data validation, data 
cleaning and at least two analysis and visualisations. Optionally you can 
consider transformations to add advanced phases. 
To be released in Week 4. 
02 
Machine Learning Task: Comparatively analyse and select a machine learning 
model to solve a cyber security case study, for example, phishing, bullying, 
intrusion etc. 
To be released in Week 8. 
03 Threat/Anomaly Analysis Task: Create an experimental proof of concept for 
applying data analytics to malware analysis.   
To be released in Week 12. 
04 
Security Monitoring Dashboard: Select and apply data science metrics to a 
cyber security case study and prepare a monitoring dashboard to show the real-
time analysis.  
To be released in Week 16. 
 
Working on this assignment will help you to practice and exercise applied data science skills in a cyber security 
context. 
If you have questions about this assignment, please post them to the discussion board ‘Assessment Queries & 
Answers’ on Blackboard. 
 
Where should I start? 
Focus on developing a clear understanding of key data science concepts and explore the cyber security domains 
where the data science concepts can be applied.  
 
What do I need to do to pass?  
You need to show evidence that you have attempted and completed at least half of the portfolio tasks to a good 
standard to pass the module.  
 
How do I achieve high marks in this assessment?  
Complete all the tasks included in the portfolio. Provide clear, well-structured and thoroughly documented and 
tested codebase. Prepare the final portfolio report to a high standard as highlighted in the marking criteria.  
 
How does the learning and teaching relate to the assessment?  
In the first half of the module, we extensively worked on learning and applying core data science concepts. In the 
second half we aimed to apply the data science concepts to cyber security problems/datasets.  
 
What additional resources may help me complete this assessment? 
FAQs and other resources on your Blackboard site 
Specific UWE library study skills pages i.e.  
o https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills 
o Critical thinking and writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol 
o Writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol consider linking to specific assessment types from this link 
o How to give a presentation 
o Writing feedback - Writing | UWE Bristol 
o Studiosity - Study support | UWE Bristol for quick feedback on your writing 
 
What do I do if I am concerned about completing this assessment? 
Page 4 of 6 
 
It is recommended that you review all of the relevant materials on Blackboard. You can also speak to your module 
leader for advice and guidance.   
UWE Bristol offer a range of Assessment Support Options that you can explore through this link, and both Student 
Support Advisers and Wellbeing Support are available. 
For further information, please see the Student study essentials. 
 
How do I avoid an Assessment Offence on this module?  
Use the support above if you feel unable to submit your own work for this module.  
Outline the most common forms of AOs for this type of assessment and brief guidance on how to avoid this.  
Refer to academic-conduct-policy-and-academic-misconduct-procedures 
 
 
Page 5 of 6 
 
Marks and Feedback 
Your assessment will be marked according to the following marking criteria. 
You can use these to evaluate your own work before you submit. 
 
The following marking criteria will be applied to the entire assessment. The ‘Accuracy & Completeness’ criteria will be further defined with the release of each portfolio task. 
Percentage mark 86-100 70-85 60-69 50-59 40-49 0-40 
Overall Descriptor Outstanding Excellent Very good Good Adequate Inadequate 
Assessment criteria PASS 
Accuracy & 
Completeness 
(80%) 
 
 
20% per portfolio task. 
Further marking 
criteria discussed 
within portfolio task 
specifications. 
All portfolio tasks 
completed to a high 
standard, results are 
verified and validated. 
Codebase is structured and 
executable.  
 
Performance and accuracy 
metrics considered 
throughout.  
All portfolio tasks 
attempted and mostly 
completed; results are 
mostly verified and 
validated. Codebase is 
structured and executable.  
 
Performance and accuracy 
metrics considered 
partially. 
Most of the portfolio 
tasks attempted and 
completed, results are 
occasionally verified and 
validated. Codebase is 
partially structured and 
executable.  
 
Performance and 
accuracy metrics are 
sparsely considered. 
At least half of the portfolio 
tasks attempted and 
completed, results are 
rarely verified and 
validated. Codebase is 
rarely structured and 
executable.  
 
Performance and accuracy 
metrics are not considered. 
Less than half of the portfolio 
tasks attempted and 
completed, results are not 
verified and validated. 
Codebase is not structured 
and executable.  
 
Performance and accuracy 
metrics are not considered. 
Portfolio tasks 
barely attempted; 
results unclear, 
codebase not 
working. 
Video demonstration 
(15%) 
 
Comprehensive video 
demonstration with clear 
and informative 
commentary. The 
demonstration covers all 
tasks in context of working 
and structure. The 
demonstration shows 
execution of the tasks 
covering all possible 
scenarios/use cases.  
Thorough video 
demonstration with clear 
and informative 
commentary. The 
demonstration covers all 
tasks in context of working 
and structure. The 
demonstration shows 
execution of the tasks 
covering most/required 
scenarios/use cases.  
Good video 
demonstration with 
relevant commentary. 
The demonstration 
covers most tasks in 
context of working and 
structure. The 
demonstration shows 
execution of the tasks in 
at least one scenario/use 
case. 
Sufficiently well-presented 
video demonstration with 
some commentary. The 
demonstration covers at 
least 50% tasks in context 
of working and structure. 
The demonstration shows 
execution some of the tasks 
in at least one scenario/use 
case. 
Video demonstration lacks 
quality and completeness. 
The demonstration covers at 
least 50% tasks in context of 
working and structure. The 
demonstration shows 
execution some of the tasks 
in at least one scenario/use 
case. 
Incomplete or 
missing video 
demonstration.  
Presentation, 
citations & references 
(5%) 
 
Exceptional style, standard 
of writing & presentation; 
may be publishable. All 
sources correctly cited with 
full details listed 
Very well-written & 
presented, negligible errors 
in typography or style. All 
sources correctly cited & 
listed; errors in style or 
detail only 
Very well-written & 
presented with only 
minor errors in 
typography or style. 
Sources largely cited & 
listed correctly; errors in 
style or detail only 
Reasonably well-written & 
presented; scope to 
improve style or proof-
reading. Most sources cited 
& listed; some details 
missing/ incomplete 
Layout very basic; readability 
marred by errors in use of 
English/ proof-reading. Some 
citation of sources but some 
source details missing/ 
incomplete 
Structure poor; no 
real argument 
discernible. 
Layout poor; 
grammatical, 
spelling/ 
punctuation errors 
throughout