
1

Automatic Zoom
 School of Computing and Creative Technologies 
 
Assessment Specification – Portfolio Task 1 
 
Module Details 
Module Code UFCE8B-30-3 
Module Title Data Science for Cyber Security 
Module Leader Ahsan Ikram 
Module Tutors Ahsan Ikram, Andrew McCarthy 
Year 2024-25 
Task 01 
Total number of assessments for this module 01 
Weighting 20% 
Date issued to students 24/10/2025 
 
Task Specification 
You are a cyber security analyst building a data analysis pipeline to train and test a packet classifier. 
You have acquired a labelled network traffic dataset that has 47 network features for each packet 
(such as, source ip, source port, protocol etc.). The features are described in a CSV file titled 
‘features.csv’. The data has two class label columns as well; one that labels malicious packets with 
the attack type out of nine possible options (namely, Fuzzers, Analysis, Backdoors, DoS, Exploits, 
Generic, Reconnaissance, Shellcode and Worms. ) and another that labels the data as 
benign/malicious. 
 
Before you use the data from the dataset to train a machine learning model, you are planning to run 
desrciptive an exploratory analysis focussed at cleaning the data. Further focus of data cleaning is on 
identifying and fixing missing, incomplete and inaccurate data.  
 
Dataset: task1.csv (Available on Blackboard.) 
You must complete this portfolio task using Python programming language and Jupyter notebook. 
Deliverable: Prepare a single Jupyter notebook. 
Using the dataset provided you have to perform the following tasks, 
 Task 
 
Marks 
1 Load the dataset, find out and print the total number of rows and columns in the 
dataset. 
 
2 
2 Run exploratory analysis on the dataset and print a summary of missing values 
across all columns. Fix the missing values using an interpolation method. 
 
3 
3 Investigate if the source and destination IP columns have any incomplete or 
inaccurate IPs. Create a bar chart to show the number of errors, missing and correct 
values.  
 
6 
4 ‘Stime’ and ‘Ltime’ shows two timestamps related to each row. Their description is in 
the features.csv file. Using your knowledge of cyber security and network traffic 
investigate if the two columns have missing or inaccurate values.  
 
If you find any missing or inaccurate values. Provide a fix for those issues and print 
the evidence on screen. 
 
4 
5 The dataset contains malicious traffic related to nine different attacks alongwith 
benign traffic. Find the percentage of malicious and benign packets in the sample.  
 
Hint: Malicious traffic data points are labelled with the ‘attack type’ in one of the 
columns. 
 
2 
6 In order to evaluate the distribution/share of each attack type, visualise the number 
of packets per attack type in an appropriate chart.  
 
3 
 Total 20 
 
 
 