
1

Automatic Zoom
 School of Computing and Creative Technologies 
 
Assessment Specification – Portfolio Task 2 
 
Module Details 
Module Code UFCE8B-30-3 
Module Title Data Science for Cyber Security 
Module Leader Ahsan Ikram 
Module Tutors Ahsan Ikram, Andrew McCarthy 
Year 2025-26 
Task 02 
Total number of assessments for this module 01 
Weighting 25% 
Date issued to students 24/11/2025 
 
Task Specification 
You are a cyber security data analyst consulting law enforcement in trying to establish a timeline of 
events and track the spread of misinformation based on various datasets to create an attacker profile 
in the aftermath of an incident. One of the datasets you are analysing is a dump of social media 
posts around the time of the incident. You have collected data from various sources that shows 
content being shared on a social media platform around the incident. Some of the content appears to 
be targetted misinformation campaigns. You want to perform further diagnostic analysis on the 
datase.  
 
Dataset: fake_news.csv (Available on Blackboard.) 
Dataset description: The dataset provided is of a collection of fake and real news articles. The 
dataset has 20 columns.  
1. id 
2. intext content 
3. language 
4. language of the article 
5. crawled 
6. crawled from where 
7. site_url 
8. site source 
9. country 
10. country name 
11. domain_rank 
12. thread_title 
13. spam_score 
14. main_img_url 
15. replies_count 
16. participants_count 
17. likes 
18. comments 
19. shares 
20. type 
You must complete this portfolio task using Python programming language. 
Deliverable: Prepare a single Jupyter notebook. You might need skipping bad lines 
(on_bad_lines='skip') option added to the ‘read_csv’ function. 
Using the assigned dataset you have to perform the following tasks, 
 Task Marks 
1 Prepare a correlation matrix for all numerical columns. Identify top three 
strongest correlated columns pairs. Print a summary. 3 
2 Apply linear regression to the correlated columns identified in (1). 
Present the regression lines with clearly labelled visualisations. 6 
3 Extract all the data labelled ‘conspiracy’, ‘hate’ and ‘satire’. The labels are 
provided in the ‘type’ column.  
Train an appropriate Naïve Bayes classifier using the data (80-20 train-test 
split).  
Test the accuracy of the trained model with five samples from each type 
(conspiracy, hate and satire). 
6 
4 Using the ‘author’, ‘shares’, ‘type’ and ‘title’ columns, create a node link 
graph, using the data for ‘hate’, ‘satire’ and ‘junksci’ type data items. The 
graph should be created such that,  
- ‘author’ and ‘title’ are nodes, titles connected to the authors. 
- The shape/icon of the nodes should represent the ‘type’.   
- The size/colour of the node represents the ‘shares’ value on a scale. 
The scale should be calculated observing the minimum and maximum 
shares. For example, 0-100, 100-500, 500-1000. 
6 
5 Using the ‘text’ column data for the rows labelled, ‘bias’ and ‘conspiracy’, 
- Prepare the data by removing stopwords, applying tokenization and 
lemmatization. 
- Prepare word clouds for both the categories (‘bias’ and ‘conspiracy’). 
4 
 Total 25 
 
 
 